---
layout: post
title: "A letter to Paris"
date: 2014-01-01 19:04:46 -0700
comments: true
categories: 
- Travel
- Paris
- Europe
- Vacation
cover: http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5489/11694587415_a38662f403_o.jpg
thumbnail: https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5489/11694587415_c0f54bcbc0_q.jpg
cover_title: In the Paris Metro.
cover_link: http://www.flickr.com/photos/andrewhao/11694587415/
---

Paris, I confess I don’t really get you. I mean, it’s amazing being here,
walking your cobblestone streets, taking in the sights and sounds. Your
language is beautiful, melodic, and silky, so much so that I’m
embarrassed when I try to speak it — the words kind of slip out of my
mouth and I lower my voice to avoid the embarrassment of
mispronunciation (several people have assumed that I’ve simply grunted,
and for some reason my face has flushed red).

You know, I don’t appreciate being hawked at, or grabbed by the hand,
trinkets pushed into my hand. I looked up from my phone once and walked
past a few of your street vendors when I felt two hands on my wrists,
and in a panic I pushed them off and stuffed my phone into my pocket and
felt a hot flash of anger and annoyance. Don’t touch me. I guess I
thought I was going to be robbed, more of an instinct. Obviously I
wasn’t, but that put me in a sour mood for a couple of minutes.

I think I understand why Parisiennes don’t claim to love Americans —
it’s because Americans like me don’t even try to learn your language.
I’ve imagined them all thinking in their heads as I stand with them in
silence in an elevator, or wordlessly jab my finger at a croissant in a
window, “Why does he not speak our language? Why can’t he even say ‘one
croissant, please?’”? I’m making it up in my mind, of course, but I’m
caught off guard in the moment that I have no idea how to say it, and
that it never even crossed my mind to figure out how.

On the crowded subway train in from the airport a couple days ago, I
reached down to pull up my luggage. We were packed in, neck to neck,
breathing down each others’ necks. The African lady standing directly in
front of me said something in French — something stern, I gathered — and
I panicked because the words meant nothing to me, and I was, for once,
the dumb one, the mute one. I mumbled (or grunted), then dropped my bag
and decided against pulling it up.

Later on, I figured out what she said: “The train door opens on that
side.”

It’s rained much here for the few days that we’re here — and as we walk
around I’ve seen several girls that are on the verge of tears. One was
looking gloomily out a subway train window. Another was walking
hand-in-hand with another man, her eyes about to pour. What happened to
them? Are they melancholy because of the weather? Is the chilly air
drying out their contacts? What are they thinking? Did their
superhandsome French boyfriends break up with them? What is exactly so
romantic about this place?

We walk and roam your streets and find, to our dismay, the majority of
shops and plazas shut down for the New Years’ festivities. It wasn’t so
disappointing the first time, but on the third or fourth time you visit
some place only to see shuttered doors, it can be a bit of a blow. My
dad suggests we go someplace to eat, and we don’t do too poorly on our
share of baguettes, crepes, omelettes, and waffles.

Here I feel a strong aversion to the mobs and New Years’ partygoers. All
I really want to find is a small cafe in a quiet part of town and sit
down with a good book or a laptop to get some coding done (I’m a nerd
like that). The first was found in a rainy maze outside the Royal Palace
— I had a cappuccino and sat by a long, foggy window and watched
tourists pour out of the building, dodging rain. The second was a tiny
shop I swear you could have found in the Mission, or somewhere in
Brooklyn: young hipsters crowded around little tables, artisan,
single-origin coffee being ground, the aromatic oils blooming to fill
the entire cafe. Ah.

But really, Paris, you won me over tonight. It wasn’t really anything
that you had done, but it was a moment I had by myself on a short jog
along the canal. I crossed over your bridges and there, at the top of
one, I realized something. Maybe it was the eerie quiet and calm you had
— you, a city of 2 million! — and the streetlights reflecting over the
water. I stood and realized that I want to come back again. Maybe
there’s a reason why people affix locks to your bridges, in hopes that a
part of them is tied to you so they may return. It had stopped raining;
I could find no slice of the moon. A couple murmured beneath a dimmed
shop window. My heart was still pounding; my breath short. Paris, I’m
hoping that I’ll be back soon.
